= SharpKit 5 =
== What's New ==
  * C# debugging support in Google Chrome! (See instructions below)
  * Brand new mono-based C# code and assembly parser ([http://wiki.sharpdevelop.net/NRefactory.ashx NRefactory] and [http://www.mono-project.com/Cecil Cecil])
  * Basic yield support - using eager list addition (not using state machine yet)
  * Automatic inlining of compile-time values - consts, string concatenations, etc...
  * C# style params array support
  * Parallel execution

== Getting Started ==
Create a new project by opening Visual Studio and create a new "SharpKit 5 Web Application" project.

== Service Mode ==
SharpKit can now run as a local HTTP service, inside a windows service container, or in console mode. You can find the windows service by running "services.msc" and finding a service named SharpKit. If this service is stopped, SharpKit will revert to command line execution mode.
To start and stop the SharpKit Windows Service:
Run: services.msc
Find the service, click start / stop.
It is also possible to run the service manually in console mode using the following command:
{{{
skc5.exe /service:console
}}}
SharpKit is hosted on port 7667 by default, it is possible to execute GET command on it, with the same command line arguments format:
[http://localhost:7667/Compile?CommandLineArgs=/why]
Any command line argument can be set in the CommandLineArgs query string parameter, this specific command may help you debug license validation issues.


== Debugging ==
Debugging of C# code from within the browser is currently supported in Google Chrome only.
A demo of debugging is available in our open-source SVN repository, named: SharpKitSourceMappingSample
[http://code.google.com/p/sharpkit/source/checkout]

To enable debugging of C# code, please follow these steps:
  * In your AssemblyInfo.cs file, add the following code:
{{{
[JsExport(GenerateSourceMaps = true)]
}}}
  * Add a reference to SharpKit.Web assembly (found in .NET references dialog, or in the SharpKit program files folder)
  * Add the SourceMaps handler in your web.config file:
{{{
<add name="SourceMapsHandler" type="SharpKit.Web.Server.Handlers.SourceMapsHandler, SharpKit.Web" verb="*" path="SourceMaps.ashx" />
}}}
  * Enable source maps in chrome: show development bar, click options wheel, check enable source maps.
  * Build your project
  * View in Google Chrome browser
  * Debug!

== Upgrading from SharpKit v4 to SharpKit v5 ==
Upgrading from SharpKit v4 to v5 is very simple, and can be easily reverted back. 
Before upgrading, check-in / commit your code, after upgrade, build your project and compare your newly generated js files with your previous ones.

Edit your .csproj file, replace the SharpKit v4 import line, with the SharpKit v5 import line:
WebApp.csproj 
{{{
<!--Replace this line:-->
<Import Project="$(MSBuildBinPath)\SharpKit\4\SharpKit.Build.targets" />
<!--With this line:-->
<Import Project="$(MSBuildBinPath)\SharpKit\5\SharpKit.Build.targets" />
}}}

== Troubleshooting ==

=== Parallel Execution ===
Parallel execution can be disabled in skc5.exe.config file, set appSettings "Parallel" to "false".

=== License Validation Issues ===
If you're running an activated version of SharpKit, but still getting license errors, run the following:
{{{
skc5.exe /why
}}}
Since SharpKit runs as a different user when in windows service, it's best to run it as an HTTP request while the service is running:
[http://localhost:7667/Compile?CommandLineArgs=/why]
Check the filename of the license, if it doesn't exist, run the /why in command line, and copy the file there.


== Support ==
If you run into any issues using SharpKit 5, please [mailto:support@sharpkit.net email us] or post in our [https://groups.google.com/forum/?fromgroups#!forum/sharpkit forum].